# kalong

Kirby, twig and fractalâ€”married into something nice.

## Introduction

Kalong is a collection/combination of different tools, to help you get
started creating your own frontend styleguide, with easy reusable
components. It is based on [Fractal](https://fractal.build) and a
collection of custom gulp-tasks to get you started fast.

## Installation

Kalong is intended to be cloned, configured and setup as the core of
your project, so instead of npm-installing this, you should rather clone
this project:

```
git clone https://github.com/webgefrickel/kalong.git ./newproject
```

After successfully cloning kalong, run `npm install` in the folder you
cloned it into to install all needed dependencies.

## Setting everything up

Open up the file kalong.config.js, change the title of to match your
project and bump the version-number, if you want to. If you have a local
server running (like Apache or nginx), you should create a subdomain and
point this vhost to the public-folder. This step is optional, but highly
recommended.

## Start coding!

Open up a terminal and run `npm start` and the development-server will
fire up, and you can start creating new components, templates and
whatever you want.

TODO

## Create a build

You have a new release of your styleguide ready? Run `npm run build` to
create a production-ready version of the styleguide, with minified
JavaScript and CSS and everything you need.

## Where should I put my stuff?

All your Sass, JavaScript, Images and SVGs that you want to use in your
stylesheets and all fonts should go into their respective folders in
_./src/_.

All those files are gonna be
parsed/compiled/minified/concatenated/copied to the **dest**-Folder in
public by the gulp tasks. The idea here is: keep all your sources in the
src-folder, let gulp do the heavy lifting.

Everything else, that is HTML, CMS, PHP or whatever should be public
(favicons, editorial images, documents etc.), should reside in the
folder _./public_.

## Thanks to

TODO

## Collaboration

Feel free to open issues and send me pull requests.

## Maintainers

Steffen Rademacker [@webgefrickel](http://twitter.com/webgefrickel)

## License

kalong is published under the [MIT License](LICENSE.md)
